    knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE,results = "asis")

Loading and preprocessing the data
----------------------------------

Data are loaded from the working directory and the data format is
changed

        setwd("F:/COURSERA/Reproducible Research/2° week")
        activity<-read.csv("activity.csv")
        activity$date<-as.Date(as.character(activity$date)) 

What is mean total number of steps taken per day?
-------------------------------------------------

Total number of steps are computed. Mean and median of steps are
computed. Histogram of total steps is plotted.

        Total_steps<-sum(activity$steps,na.rm=T)
        mean_step<-mean(activity$steps,na.rm=T)
        median_step<-median(activity$steps,na.rm=T)
        mean_step

\[1\] 37.3826

        median_step

\[1\] 0

        hist(activity$steps, main = "Histogram of total steps", xlab = "Steps", col =  "red")

![](PA1_Template_files/figure-markdown_strict/total_steps-1.png)

What is the average daily activity pattern?
-------------------------------------------

Here is the code that groups activity dataset by interval variable and
subsequently summarize the results computing the average steps for every
single interval of 5 minutes time. Last, there is the 5-interval minutes
with the most higher number of steps.

        library(dplyr)

    ## 
    ## Attaching package: 'dplyr'

    ## The following objects are masked from 'package:stats':
    ## 
    ##     filter, lag

    ## The following objects are masked from 'package:base':
    ## 
    ##     intersect, setdiff, setequal, union

        media_5_int<-group_by(activity, interval)
        media_5_int_value<-summarize(media_5_int,avg_step=mean(steps,na.rm=T))
        plot(media_5_int_value$interval,media_5_int_value$avg_step,type="l", main="Average daily activity pattern",xlab = "Interval_5_minutes",ylab = "Average steps",col="red",lwd=1.5)

![](PA1_Template_files/figure-markdown_strict/daily%20activity-1.png)

        max_5_int<-arrange(media_5_int_value,desc(avg_step))
        max_int<-max_5_int[1,1]
        max_int<-as.matrix(max_int)
        max_int 

     interval

\[1,\] 835

Imputing missing values
-----------------------

Below there is the code used to fill in missing values in the activity
dateset (steps variable). Every NA's values has been replaced by the
average step relating to the corresponding interval axis. To recover the
right average step needing to replace the NA values, it has been done a
merge between the dataset activity and the dataset containing the
average step computed for interval x-axis 5 minutes. Then, there is the
value of total steps taken and the mean and median of the distribution
of steps. In addition, an histogram to summarize the data.

        mis_val<-sum(is.na(activity$steps))
        mis_val

\[1\] 2304

        activity_no_NA<-merge(activity,media_5_int_value,by.x = "interval",by.y = "interval",all.x = T)
        activity_no_NA$steps<-as.double(activity_no_NA$steps)
        activity_no_NA<-mutate(activity_no_NA,no_NA=case_when(is.na(steps)==TRUE ~ avg_step,is.na(steps)==FALSE ~ steps))
        activity_no_NA<-select(activity_no_NA,c(interval,no_NA,date))
        hist(activity_no_NA$no_NA, main = "Histogram of total steps", xlab = "Steps", col = "red")

![](PA1_Template_files/figure-markdown_strict/daily%20missing%20value-1.png)

        mean_step_no_NA<-mean(activity_no_NA$no_NA,na.rm=T)
        median_step_no_NA<-median(activity_no_NA$no_NA,na.rm=T)
        Total_steps_no_NA<-sum(activity_no_NA$no_NA,na.rm=T)
        mean_step_no_NA

\[1\] 37.3826

        median_step_no_NA

\[1\] 0

        Total_steps_no_NA

\[1\] 656737.5

With reference to the first part of the assignment, it seems that the
value concerning the summarizing value of mean and median regarding the
distribution of steps doesn't change, while there is an increase of the
total daily number of steps.

Are there differences in activity patterns between weekdays and weekends?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

In this part of report, the results about the differences in activity
patterns between weekdays and weekends are described. In particular, it
is reported a panel plot in which there is a comparison between the
number of steps taken in weekdays or in weekend days averaged across the
5 interval minutes.

        library(ggplot2)
        activity_no_NA$day<-weekdays(activity_no_NA$date)  
        activity_no_NA<-mutate(activity_no_NA, day_type=case_when(day %in% c("lunedì","martedì","mercoledì","giovedì","venerdì") ~ "weekday",day %in% c("sabato","domenica") ~ "weekend"))
        activity_group_inter_day_type<-group_by(activity_no_NA,interval,day_type)
        activity_group_sum_inte_day_type<-summarize(activity_group_inter_day_type,avg_day_type=sum(no_NA)) 
        
        g<-ggplot(activity_group_sum_inte_day_type,aes(interval,avg_day_type))
        g+geom_line(lwd=1)+facet_grid(day_type ~ .)+labs(ylab("avg_step"))+ggtitle("Average Steps divided by type of day")

![](PA1_Template_files/figure-markdown_strict/daily%20weekdays-1.png)

As can be seen from the graph, it seems that there is a substantial
difference between the weekdays and the weekend days.
